README.md, before:

[![Version npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/figolia.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/figolia) [![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/webstylestory/figolia.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/webstylestory/figolia) [![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/webstylestory/figolia.svg?style=flat-square)](https://coveralls.io/github/webstylestory/figolia) [![Code climate](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/github/kabisaict/flow.svg?style=flat-square)](https://codeclimate.com/github/webstylestory/figolia) [![Dependency Status](https://img.shields.io/david/webstylestory/figolia.svg?style=flat-square)](https://david-dm.org/webstylestory/figolia) [![devDependency Status](https://img.shields.io/david/dev/webstylestory/figolia.svg?style=flat-square)](https://david-dm.org/webstylestory/figolia#info=devDependencies) [![Babel stage-2 badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/babel-stage%202-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/preset-stage-2/) [![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/webstylestory/figolia/master/LICENSE) [![Made by french tech badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/made%20by-french%20%E2%9D%A4%20tech-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](http://webstylestory.com)


# Figolia


⚡️  Keep your Algolia search indexes in sync with your Firebase datasets!

When using [Firebase](http://firebase.com) as a web or mobile backend, [Algolia](http://algolia.com) search-as-a-service is a really nice addition, considering the poor search and querying capabilities of Firebase. Figolia is the perfect companion to make their synchronization happen in no time.

*(Codebase inspired by Scott Smith's work in this [blog post](http://scottksmith.com/blog/2014/12/09/algolia-real-time-search-with-firebase/))*


## Features


  * Sync multiple Firebase references
  * All CRUD Firebase operations reflected in Algolia 
  * Restarts from last indexing timestamp the next time it's launched
  * Throttle indexing to limit Algolia API calls


---


  * [Install](#install)
  * [Usage](#usage)
  * [Configuration](#configuration)
      * [Firebase configuration](#firebase-configuration)
      * [Reindexing, incremental indexing](#reindexing-incremental-indexing)
  * [Release Notes](#release-notes)
  * [Known Issues](#known-issues)
  * [Developers](#developers)
      * [Logging & Debugging](#logging--debugging)
      * [testing](#testing)
      * [contribute](#contribute)
  * [License](#license)


## Install


    $ [sudo] npm install -g figolia

Or, download from github repository :

    $ git clone https://github.com/webstylestory/figolia.git
    $ cd figolia
    $ npm install


## Usage

    $ figolia --help

      Usage: figolia [options]

      Options:

        -h, --help           output usage information
        -V, --version        output the version number
        -c, --config [path]  Specify configuration (default to ~/.figolia.conf.js)
        -l, --live-index     Keep server running to live index Firebase operations (otherwise exit after indexing)
        -r, --reset          Force index reset (clear & full reindex)

*Note: if downloaded from github, try using `npm link` first, or, `./bin/figolia`*

Important: for the moment, there is no way to run the server without a config file, at least to provide the schema you wish to index. See the [section below about configuration](#configuration).


## Configuration


Copy the `defaults.conf.js` and modify it according to your needs, before running the server.


    var CONFIG = {
        // Firebase credentials
        firebase: {
            instance: 'TO_BE_CHANGED',
            secret: 'TO_BE_CHANGED',
            // Where to store server metadata
            path: 'algolia',
            // Firebase token will be generated with this uid (to write above path)
            uid: 'algolia'
        },
        // Algolia credentials
        algolia: {
            applicationId: 'TO_BE_CHANGED',
            // *Admin* API Key
            apiKey: 'TO_BE_CHANGED'
        },
        // Fully reindex all datasets. Can be overiden on the commandline.
        reset: false,
        // Stay running and live-index all firebase operations.
        // Can be overriden on the commandline.
        liveIndex: false,
        // Minimum throttle delay between Algolia API calls (in seconds)
        // Note: between each throttle delay, a maximum of
        // [3 * dataset number] calls can be made (add, update & delete)
        throttleDelay: 10,
        // Optional, this field will be checked against last
        // run date to see if reindexing is necessary.
        // Field type must be UNIX timestamp (example Javascript Date.now()).
        // WARNING: Without this field being corectly configured,
        // everything is re-indexed at each rerun.
        timestampField: 'modifiedAt',
        // Firebase datasets to index in Algolia (examples)
        schema: {
            todoLists: {
                // Firebase path
                path: 'app/todo',
                // Algolia index (must exist already)
                index: 'dev_todo_lists',
                // Optional, name of ID field (otherwise,
                // the Firebase object key will be used)
                key: 'id',
                // Optional, list of fields to index
                // (otherwise, every field will be indexed)
                includeFields: [
                    'name',
                    'modifiedAt'
                ],
                // Optional, list of fields to exclude from index
                // Note: if both are specified, `excludeFields` 
                // is applied *after* `includeFields`
                excludeFields: [
                    'passwdHash',
                    'private'
                ]
            },
            todoItems: {
                // Second example dataset to index, minimal config
                path: 'app/todoItems',
                index: 'dev_todo_items'
            }
        }
    };


### Firebase configuration


In order for `figolia` to work properly, it must store 
the last known indexing date in firebase. You can specify the path where you
want this information stored in the config ([see above](#configuration)). 
Default is to use the path named `figolia` at the root of your Firebase reference.


### Reindexing, incremental indexing


This daemon supports a simple mode where every indexed object in Algolia is dropped at runtime, and then re-indexed from the current Firebase connection. **Any previously indexed data will be lost.**

For more serious usage, this is not reccomended, as it can lead to many useless operations, and bandwith waste.

I really suggest to specify `path` and `uid` in `firebase` config field, and give
write access to that uid in the Firebase Rules. Also mandatory, the last modificated 
time of each items must be set in the schema definition (for example, 
in a `modifiedAt` field). This is in your app, if you did not implement such feature 
to track the last modified time of each of your objects, you'll have to do so 
before using this server efficiently. 

To allow `algolia` user to write in your Firebase `algolia` path, 
add the following in your Firebase instance security rules:

    // Let figolia daemon keep track of what is in sync
    "algolia": {                              
        ".read": "auth.uid == 'algolia'",
        ".write": "auth.uid == 'algolia'",
    }
    // To avoid Firebase warnings running the tests
    "tests": {
      "testData": {
        ".indexOn": "modifiedAt"
      }
    }

### Production setup

For production setup, I strongly encourage the use of a good process manager 
like [PM2](https://github.com/Unitech/pm2) or [foreverjs](https://github.com/foreverjs/forever).

To make them work with figolia, which is developped with ES2015 and deployed without pre-compilation, you need to specify the full path of the executable :

    $ which figolia
    /usr/local/bin/figolia
    $ pm2 start /usr/local/bin/figolia

## Release notes

 * 0.2.4 - Fix babel ignore option and config loading
 * 0.2.0 - Add throttle option to limit API calls
 * 0.1.5 - Add ignore/only in babel-register options as .babelrc switches ignored
 * 0.1.1 - Fix commandline issue with missing npm package
 * 0.1.0 - Initial release


## Known issues


  * [#15](#15) If relaunching indexing after a previous one, with timestamp
    stored in Firebase, removed items since then will not be removed from index. 
    Workaround is to delete timestamp in `algolia/index` backend in Firebase to 
    force a full reindex. A fix would enable reflecting deletions in the index, but 
    the small updates would remain unnoticed, so if your database stay wuthout
    indexing for too long, a full reindex is the most adequate option.



## Developers


### Logging & debugging


By default, basic info is output in the console. Should you need more debug information, you can use the following command line:

    DEBUG=figolia* figolia

...or go full throttle including algolia and firebase libs debug info :

    DEBUG=* figolia


### Testing


Because Firebase and Algolia accounts are needed for this app, you have to provide
all the necessary credentials as environment variables while running `npm test`:

    FIREBASE_INSTANCE=CHANGE_ME FIREBASE_SECRET=CHANGE_ME ALGOLIA_APP_ID=CHANGE_ME \
    ALGOLIA_API_KEY=CHANGE_ME DEBUG=quiet npm test

Note: The tests are pretty slow, because they wait for all Algolia write
and indexing operations to finish in order to validate the results. You can speed 
up your testing of a specific file by appending its name to the command line:

    FIREBASE_INSTANCE=CHANGE_ME FIREBASE_SECRET=CHANGE_ME ALGOLIA_APP_ID=CHANGE_ME \
    ALGOLIA_API_KEY=CHANGE_ME DEBUG=quiet npm test ./test/testfile.spec.js

*Note bis: although the server can work with a read-only access to Firebase, the tests
cannot, because they have to write fixture data, hence the need for a full Firebase
configuration, including `secret` and `uid` ([see above](#firebase-configuration))*


### Contribute


PRs are more than welcome! Your PR should not break current usage
and pass all tests. Even better if you write the tests for the added code, and 
even better if the new features are documented in this README ;-) 

I will have a look at anything you will have the time to propose.


## License


MIT © 2016 Aurélien Chivot <aurelien@webstylestory.com>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Missing new options in commandline docs

README.md, after:

[![Version npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/figolia.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/figolia) [![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/webstylestory/figolia.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/webstylestory/figolia) [![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/webstylestory/figolia.svg?style=flat-square)](https://coveralls.io/github/webstylestory/figolia) [![Code climate](https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/github/kabisaict/flow.svg?style=flat-square)](https://codeclimate.com/github/webstylestory/figolia) [![Dependency Status](https://img.shields.io/david/webstylestory/figolia.svg?style=flat-square)](https://david-dm.org/webstylestory/figolia) [![devDependency Status](https://img.shields.io/david/dev/webstylestory/figolia.svg?style=flat-square)](https://david-dm.org/webstylestory/figolia#info=devDependencies) [![Babel stage-2 badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/babel-stage%202-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/preset-stage-2/) [![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/webstylestory/figolia/master/LICENSE) [![Made by french tech badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/made%20by-french%20%E2%9D%A4%20tech-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](http://webstylestory.com)


# Figolia


⚡️  Keep your Algolia search indexes in sync with your Firebase datasets!

When using [Firebase](http://firebase.com) as a web or mobile backend, [Algolia](http://algolia.com) search-as-a-service is a really nice addition, considering the poor search and querying capabilities of Firebase. Figolia is the perfect companion to make their synchronization happen in no time.

*(Codebase inspired by Scott Smith's work in this [blog post](http://scottksmith.com/blog/2014/12/09/algolia-real-time-search-with-firebase/))*


## Features


  * Sync multiple Firebase references
  * All CRUD Firebase operations reflected in Algolia 
  * Restarts from last indexing timestamp the next time it's launched
  * Throttle indexing to limit Algolia API calls


---


  * [Install](#install)
  * [Usage](#usage)
  * [Configuration](#configuration)
      * [Firebase configuration](#firebase-configuration)
      * [Reindexing, incremental indexing](#reindexing-incremental-indexing)
  * [Release Notes](#release-notes)
  * [Known Issues](#known-issues)
  * [Developers](#developers)
      * [Logging & Debugging](#logging--debugging)
      * [testing](#testing)
      * [contribute](#contribute)
  * [License](#license)


## Install


    $ [sudo] npm install -g figolia

Or, download from github repository :

    $ git clone https://github.com/webstylestory/figolia.git
    $ cd figolia
    $ npm install


## Usage

    $ figolia --help

      Usage: figolia [options]

      Options:

        -h, --help                    output usage information
        -V, --version                 output the version number
        -c, --config [path]           Specify configuration (default ~/.figolia.conf.js)
        -l, --live-index              Keep server running to live index Firebase operations (otherwise exit after indexing)
        -r, --reset                   Force index reset (clear & full reindex)
        -t, --timestamp-field [name]  Object field name containing last modification timestamp (default 'modifiedAt')
        -d, --throttle-delay [n]      Minimum throttle delay between Algolia API calls (in seconds, default 10)
                                      Note: between each throttle delay, a maximum of
                                      { 3 * number of datasets } API calls can be made (add, update & delete)

*Note: if downloaded from github, try using `npm link` first, or, `./bin/figolia`*

**Important:** for the moment, there is no way to run the server without a config file, at least to provide the schema you wish to index. See the [configuration](#configuration).


## Configuration


Copy the `defaults.conf.js` and modify it according to your needs, before running the server. 
(type `figolia --help` to see the default configuration file location)


    var CONFIG = {
        // Firebase credentials
        firebase: {
            instance: 'TO_BE_CHANGED',
            secret: 'TO_BE_CHANGED',
            // Where to store server metadata
            path: 'algolia',
            // Firebase token will be generated with this uid (to write above path)
            uid: 'algolia'
        },
        // Algolia credentials
        algolia: {
            applicationId: 'TO_BE_CHANGED',
            // *Admin* API Key
            apiKey: 'TO_BE_CHANGED'
        },
        // Fully reindex all datasets (ERASE PREVIOUS INDEX DATA)
        reset: false,
        // Stay running and live-index all firebase operations.
        liveIndex: false,
        // Minimum throttle delay between Algolia API calls (in seconds)
        // Note: between each throttle delay, a maximum of
        // [3 * dataset number] calls can be made (add, update & delete)
        throttleDelay: 10,
        // Optional, this field will be checked against last
        // run date to see if reindexing is necessary.
        // Field type must be UNIX timestamp (example Javascript Date.now()).
        // WARNING: Without this field being corectly configured,
        // everything is re-indexed at each rerun.
        timestampField: 'modifiedAt',
        // Firebase datasets to index in Algolia (examples)
        schema: {
            todoLists: {
                // Firebase path
                path: 'app/todo',
                // Algolia index (must exist already)
                index: 'dev_todo_lists',
                // Optional, name of ID field (otherwise,
                // the Firebase object key will be used)
                key: 'id',
                // Optional, list of fields to index
                // (otherwise, every field will be indexed)
                includeFields: [
                    'name',
                    'modifiedAt'
                ],
                // Optional, list of fields to exclude from index
                // Note: if both are specified, `excludeFields` 
                // is applied *after* `includeFields`
                excludeFields: [
                    'passwdHash',
                    'private'
                ]
            },
            todoItems: {
                // Second example dataset to index, minimal config
                path: 'app/todoItems',
                index: 'dev_todo_items'
            }
        }
    };


### Firebase configuration


In order for `figolia` to work properly, it must store 
the last known indexing date in firebase. You can specify the path where you
want this information stored in the config ([see above](#configuration)). 
Default is to use the path named `figolia` at the root of your Firebase reference.


### Reindexing, incremental indexing


This daemon supports a simple mode where every indexed object in Algolia is dropped at runtime, 
and then re-indexed from the current Firebase connection. **Any previously indexed data will be lost.**

This is not reccomended, as it can lead to many useless operations, and bandwith waste.

I really suggest to specify `path` and `uid` in `firebase` config field, and give
write access to that uid in the Firebase Rules. Also mandatory, the last modificated 
time of each items must be set in the schema definition (for example, 
in a `modifiedAt` field). 

This is in your app, if you did not implement such feature 
to track the last modified time of each of your objects, you'll have to do so 
before using this tool efficiently. You can also chose to leave this field
unchanged for certain minor operations that does not need reindexation.

To allow `algolia` user to write in your Firebase `algolia` path, 
add the following in your Firebase instance security rules:

    // Let figolia daemon keep track of what is in sync
    "algolia": {                              
        ".read": "auth.uid == 'algolia'",
        ".write": "auth.uid == 'algolia'",
    }
    // Optional, to avoid Firebase warnings when running the tests
    "tests": {
      "testData": {
        ".indexOn": "modifiedAt"
      }
    }

### Production setup

For production setup, I strongly encourage the use of a good process manager 
like [PM2](https://github.com/Unitech/pm2) or [foreverjs](https://github.com/foreverjs/forever).

To make them work with figolia, which is developped with ES2015 and deployed without pre-compilation, 
you need to specify the full path of the executable :

    $ which figolia
    /usr/local/bin/figolia
    $ pm2 start /usr/local/bin/figolia

## Release notes

 * 0.2.4 - Fix babel ignore option and config loading
 * 0.2.0 - Add throttle option to limit API calls
 * 0.1.5 - Add ignore/only in babel-register options as .babelrc switches ignored
 * 0.1.1 - Fix commandline issue with missing npm package
 * 0.1.0 - Initial release


## Known issues


  * [#15](#15) If relaunching indexing after a previous one, with timestamp
    stored in Firebase, removed items since then will not be removed from index. 
    Workaround is to delete timestamp in `algolia/index` backend in Firebase to 
    force a full reindex. A fix would enable reflecting deletions in the index, but 
    the small updates would remain unnoticed, so if your database stay wuthout
    indexing for too long, a full reindex is the most adequate option.



## Developers


### Logging & debugging


By default, basic info is output in the console. Should you need more debug information, you can use the following command line:

    DEBUG=figolia* figolia

...or go full throttle including Babel, Algolia and Firebase debug info :

    DEBUG=* figolia


### Testing


Because Firebase and Algolia accounts are needed for this app, you have to provide
all the necessary credentials as environment variables while running `npm test`:

    FIREBASE_INSTANCE=CHANGE_ME FIREBASE_SECRET=CHANGE_ME ALGOLIA_APP_ID=CHANGE_ME \
    ALGOLIA_API_KEY=CHANGE_ME DEBUG=quiet npm test

Note 1: The tests are pretty slow sometimes, because they wait for all Algolia write
and indexing operations to finish in order to validate the results. You can speed 
up your testing of a specific file by appending its name to the command line:

    FIREBASE_INSTANCE=CHANGE_ME FIREBASE_SECRET=CHANGE_ME ALGOLIA_APP_ID=CHANGE_ME \
    ALGOLIA_API_KEY=CHANGE_ME DEBUG=quiet npm test ./test/testfile.spec.js

*Note 2: although the server can work with a read-only access to Firebase, the tests
cannot, because they have to write fixture data, hence the need for a full Firebase
configuration, including `secret` and `uid` ([see configuration](#firebase-configuration))*


### Contribute


PRs are more than welcome! Your PR should not break current usage
and pass all tests. Even better if you write the tests for the added code, and 
even better if the new features are documented in this README ;-) 

I will have a look at anything you will have the time to propose.


## License


MIT © 2016 Aurélien Chivot <aurelien@webstylestory.com>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
